---
title: Templates
navigation: false
layout: page
---

<style>
body {
  font-family: 'Poppins', sans-serif;
}
</style>

## Motivation

**Universal-Box** was created to simplify the project setup process by providing users with a diverse collection of pre-built templates. Our goal is to enable developers to quickly configure their projects and deploy them with just one click. Whether you're launching a new web application, API service, or any other type of project, Universal-Box is designed to save you hours of initial setup time.

With [Universal-Box](https://github.com/Abhishek-Mallick/universal-box), you can focus on what truly matters—building your application—while we handle the boilerplate setup. Enjoy seamless integration and customization options that adapt to your specific needs, ensuring a smooth development experience from start to finish.

## Features

- **50+ Project templates** available for free.
- **Easy and fast installation** process - Quickly scaffold new projects with minimal setup time using intuitive command-line instructions.
- Each template includes a comprehensive `README` with documentation that provides step-by-step guidance on setup, customization, and usage.
- Fully customizable to meet your specific needs.
- **One-Click Deployments**: Simplify your workflow with one-click deployment options that allow you to launch your applications effortlessly.`(to be released)`
- Follows **industry standards** for best practices.
- All dependencies are kept up to date. Regularly updated templates ensure compatibility with the latest libraries and frameworks. Templates are updated **every week** to ensure relevance.

## Discover Your Perfect Template

::steps
Choosing the right template is crucial for kickstarting your project effectively. Here's how to find and set up the perfect template for your needs:

### Browse Available Templates

Start by exploring the collection of templates available at [Universal Box Templates](https://universal-box.vercel.app/templates). Here, you can find a variety of options tailored for different types of projects, including web applications, APIs, and more. Each template comes with a description to help you understand its purpose and features.

### Select Your Template

Once you've browsed through the templates, select one that aligns with your project requirements. Consider factors such as:
- **Project Type**: Are you building a web app, an API, or something else?
- **Customization Needs**: Does the template offer the flexibility you require?

### Initiate Your Template Setup

After selecting your template, use the following commands to initialize your project:

::steps
::
::code-group
  ```bash [npm]
  # Install Universal Box globally
  npm i -g universal-box

  # Initialize your project
  universal-box init
  ```
::

::alert
Alternatively, you can have a look at the codebase [here](https://github.com/Abhishek-Mallick/universal-box/tree/main/template).
::

### Enter your desired project name

### Install dependencies & run the development server

Check the `README.md` file for the specific commands to install dependencies and run the development server.

::code-group
  ```bash [npm]
  npm i
  ```
  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn
  ```
  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm i
  ```
::

Start the development server

::code-group
  ```bash [npm]
  npm run dev
  ```
  ```bash [yarn]
  yarn dev
  ```
  ```bash [pnpm]
  pnpm dev
  ```
::

::alert{type="success" icon="lucide:circle-check"}
Well done! A browser window should automatically open for http://localhost:3000.
::

::


:ellipsis{right=0px width=75% blur=150px}

::block-hero
---
cta:
  - Get started
  - /introduction/getting-started
secondary:
  - Open on GitHub →
  - https://github.com/Abhishek-Mallick/universal-box
---


::card-grid

#default

::card-group
  ::card{icon=noto:puzzle-piece}
  #title
  Fully Customizable.
  #description
  Work on top of pre-built templates and customize them to fulfill your unique business requirements.
  ::

  ::card{icon=material-symbols:laptop-windows-outline-rounded}
  #title
  Quick Project Setup.
  #description
  Start your projects effortlessly with our intuitive commands that scaffold your application in seconds.
  ::

  ::card{icon=i-heroicons-document-text}
  #title
  Comprehensive Documentation.
  #description
  Each template comes with a detailed documentation that guides you through setup, usage, and customization options.
  ::

  ::card{icon=i-heroicons-scissors}
  #title
  One-Click Deployments.
  #description
  Launch your applications with ease using one-click deployment commands that streamline your workflow.
  ::
::